
 MNB20001101.2100.3044 
 NEWS STORY 
 11/01/2000 21:50:44.08 


it either says a lot about the " getting elected in this country or both, but jay leno has become a campaign stop in this country . our report on the new trend fra david gregory . 

it's eight days before the election, and guess where george w. bush is? 

hi. how many in your party ? 

we like our champagne on ice, please. sorry i didn't name you vice president . something about the background check. 

i think i would have a little bit of trouble. 

in a dead heat with al gore , tonight bush puts issues aside instead playing for laughs with the late night comedy. 

3, 2 -- 

hey, hi, governor bush . 

jay , you can't light that in here . the stuff in the closet is highly flamabable. 

i think the word you 're looking for is flammable. 

flamabable. 

flammable. 

jay , look at that sign. 

the campaign has hit the late show. both bush and al gore realize there's votes to be had joking after dark. 

if you 're elected president , how do you prepare yourself for the next four years of jay 's monologue.sory staff working on the jay chip. 

really? 

in this case jay stands for you . any political offensive humor is automatically -- 

oh, just wiped out. and you 're not kidding. i can see that grin. 

why do you think it's so important to do these shows? 

i think it shows a different side -- at least it does for me . it gives people a chance to show i know how to laugh. not only laugh with people, i can laugh at myself , which sometimes i need to do during the course of the campaign. 

it's an important way to communicate in a slightly different manner to people that are really tuned in every night. 

the odd thing about him is, in the dressing room , couldn't be looser or funnier. 

you 're under a lot of pressure. it's a tying race. here you 're doing schtick on jay leno. 

i know it. actually, i 'm enjoying it. i like the man . i think he 's a unique person . i think it's important to have people who help americans laugh. but this is a way for me to i think a leno show is suitable to my personality. 

you can take it. you have a sense of humor. people say oh, not a bad sport . because ultimately, we 're not a country that values intellectuals . we like personalities . and if have a good personality, that seems good enough. 

that's scary. this is more scary. 

we 'll be right back here's a hard-hitting question from karen . do you keep your figure during the campaign? 

thank you, karen . i run actually. 

you do run. what do you do a mile in? 

about 7 1/2 minute miles. 

have you challenged al gore to a foot race? 

i would be willing to put it all on a foot race. 

really? oh. can you come back tomorrow? wow. 

when it comes to late night tv, the candidates may be eager to show humor over substance. 

if you win, what's the first meal you will order as president . what is the first meal? 

well, if it's as close as they are saying it is, breakfast. but if it's -- if the returns come in early election night, probably a happy meal from mcdonald 's. 

yeah? 

but critics question whether voters get cheated because the politicians would rather face comics than tough questions. 

the two candidates , the voters are getting screwed! they 're getting cheated? they got screwed six months ago. what are you talking about? folks getting cheated. they 've already been cheat the. they don't even know it yet. 

what do you worry more, losing the election or having a joke fall flat? 

i don't know i 'll let you know after the show. 

i 'm not asking you to vote as a citizen but as jay leno , who are you dying to have in the white house ? 

i would like to get an amendment and get clinton back. fat girls under the desk. we don't see that again in our lifetime. in our lifetime. 

it's all downhill from here. 

it's like "happy days" after the fonz left. it's potsy and rat of mouth . that's the problem. we 're losing the fonz. 



 11/01/2000 21:55:39.60 

