
 NBC20001205.1830.0912 
 NEWS STORY 
 12/05/2000 18:45:12.81 


nbc news "in depth" tonight -- air delays in a year that's seen more than ever before. as we head into another heavy holiday travel period, delays are making life miserable for thousands of travelers . and one airport more than any other is delay central . that 's new york 's laguardia airport . a year ago, there were 3,100 delayed flights at la guardia for the month of september. this september -- there were 9,000, almost triple the delay rate. what's going on at this busy airport , and why is it affecting travelers all around the country ? that was the subject of a congressional hearing today. here's nbc 's robert hager , "in depth." 

 reporter: 
9:00 this morning at new york 's la guardia airport , the weather is perfect, but already there are delays, a long line waiting to take off. la guardia 's runways can handle a maximum of 75 takeoffs and landings an hour, but between 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. each day, airlines schedule 93, a mathematical impossibility. and it stays that way nearly all day long. 

in and out of la guardia , it's always delayed, so i always expect to be delayed and to have extra time to blow at the airport . 

i fly almost every weekend, and this airport is one i least like to come in and out of. 

 reporter: 
elsewhere at delta cancellations because of labor problems with pilots are so bad that today the airline announces a cutback of up to 125 flights a day for the foreseeable future. 

if an airline is having problems with its crew or labor problems, you probably don't want to book a flight on that airline . 

 reporter: 
this year's been an all-time record for flight delays nationwide. 1,500 flights every day, flying late now, 55% more than last year, nearly 100% more than two years ago. instead of cutting flights, congress and the government recently raised the limit at la guardia . and airlines rushed in, adding 300 more flights a day. at a hearing today, the tempers of new york lawmakers boiled over. 

first you are number 35. then you are number 26. then there is another reason. we get a different excuse every 15 or 20 minutes. 

when the plane lands, you can't find a gate. 

 reporter: 
just yesterday, in an admission that adding flights at la guardia may have been a mistake, the faa makes a unique attempt to offer some relief -- an unusual lottery mixing up the names of airlines in a bowl and drawing to see which of the newest airlines adding flights at la guardia get to stay and which have to cut back. 

american transair , vanguard , spirit . 

 reporter: 
it's the first time in 14 years that the government resorts to a lottery like this to regulate the number of flights at an airport . as a result, airlines will have to get rid of 131 flights a day at la guardia by february. the sort of regulation airlines hate. but if delays continue to grow, it could force similar moves for other airports in a desperate effort to ease the gridlock with no other ready solution in sight. washington . 


 12/05/2000 18:48:15.30 

